.\" Man page for edbrowse
.\"
.\" Copyright (C), 2007 Kapil Hari Paranjape
.\"
.\" You may distribute under the terms of the GNU General Public
.\" License as specified in the file /usr/share/common-licences/GPLv2
.\" that comes with the Debian distribution.
.\"
.\" Written by Kapil Hari Paranjape
.\" based on the edbdoc.html file written by Karl Dahlke.
.\" Include a Macro From Branden Robinson's WTFM.PDF
.de URI
\\$2 \(la URI: \\$1 \(ra\\$3
..
.if \n[.g] .mso www.tmac
.\" End if Include
.TH edbrowse 1 2019-11-11 "edbrowse 3.7.6"
.SH NAME
edbrowse \- text editor and web browser
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR edbrowse
.RI "[ " "file1" " ]"
.RI "[ " "file2" " ]"
.I ...
.LP
.BR edbrowse
.RI "[ " "url1" " ]"
.RI "[ " "url2" " ]"
.I " ..."
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
Complete documentation can be found in the user's guide; see below.
.PP
.BR edbrowse
is a line-oriented text editor very similar to
.BR ed (1),
It is used to create, display, modify and otherwise manipulate text
files.
.PP
In addition
.BR edbrowse
can be used to display web pages and edit the
contents of these pages. It supports the use of forms and Javascript in
web pages.
.PP
If
.BR edbrowse
is invoked with a
.I file
argument, then a copy of
.I file
is read into the editor's buffer. If it is invoked with a
.I url
argument, then the
.I url
is read into the editor's buffer and the HTML is rendered as text.
Changes are made to this copy and not directly to
.I file
or 
.I url
itself.
.PP
Please refer to
.BR ed (1)
for further details regarding the editing commands. Explanation of the
browsing functions can be found in the HTML documentation.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
To read the HTML documentation you can do
.IP
.BR "edbrowse /usr/share/doc/edbrowse/usersguide.html"
.PP
To read (say) 20 lines of the buffer at a time starting from
the top use the command
.I `0z20'
followed by repeating
.I `z' 
to scroll another 20 lines at a time.
.PP
To quit the editor completely type
.I `qt'
\&. Upon quitting
.BR edbrowse ,
any changes not explicitly saved  with a
.I `w'
command are lost. The
.I `w'
command does not apply to URLs but one can save the corresponding
buffer to a file by the command \fIw file\fR.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Display the usage message.
.TP
.B \-e
Batch mode. This option causes 
.BR edbrowse
to exit when it encounters an error.
.TP
.B \-d?
Debug level. Can be set to a value between 0 and 9. The default is 1 
which prints the sizes of buffers. Some people like 2 which prints
out URLs as they are retrieved. This value can be changed within the 
editor with the
.I dbx
command with x a value between 0 and 9.
.TP
.B \-c
Edit config file. This command suppresses the processing of the
configuration file
.I $HOME/.ebrc
and starts editing it instead. This option is useful if this file
is syntactically incorrect or otherwise corrupted.
.PP
.SH FILES
.TP 20
.I $HOME/.ebrc
Configuration file. The file which
.B edbrowse
reads when it starts up. If the file exists then it must be
syntactically correct.
.PP
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
When an error occurs,
if
.BR edbrowse 
it
prints a `?' and returns to command mode.
An explanation of the last error can be
printed with the
.I `h'
(help) command.
.PP
Attempting to quit
.B edbrowse
with the 
.I `q'
command or trying to edit another file before writing a modified buffer
results in an error. If the command is entered a second time, it succeeds,
but any changes to the buffer are lost.
.PP
.SH BUGS
This manual page is not complete.  Users should refer to the HTML
documentation for fuller details of the
configuration options and for details of the use of edbrowse.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR ed (1),
.IR sed (1),
.IR pcrepattern (3).
.PP
The
.URL "/usr/share/doc/edbrowse/usersguide.html" "HTML documentation" " "
provides greater detail about the program.
.PP
.SH AUTHORS
This manual page was originally written by Kapil Hari Paranjape
<kapil@imsc.res.in>,
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but it may be used by others).
.PP
The
.B edbrowse
program is written by Karl Dahlke
<eklhad@gmail.com>. The author maintains
.URL "http://edbrowse.org" "a web site" " "
for the program.
.
